Add pre-commit configuration (#18)
insightsengineering/r.pkg.template: README.md

## Usage

- Assuming your package will be called `awesomeR`, and the Github owner (i.e. username or organization) is `awesome-owner`, set them as shell variables. This will be used for steps to follow:

```bash
package_owner="awesome-owner"
package_name="awesomeR"
```

- Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insightsengineering/r.pkg.template.git ${package_name}
cd ${package_name}
```

- Remove the previous git history and re-initialize your git repository:

```bash
rm -rf .git
git init
```

- Replace references:

```bash
grep -rl "r.pkg.template" --exclude-dir='.git' | xargs perl -p -i -e "s/r.pkg.template/${package_name}/g"
grep -rl "insightsengineering" --exclude-dir='.git' | xargs perl -p -i -e "s/insightsengineering/${package_owner}/g"
```

- Rename the RStudio project file:

```bash
mv r.pkg.template.Rproj "${package_name}.Rproj"
```

- Update the remainder of the package as you would do typically while developing an R package.

- Enjoy!

## Pre-commit

> This repository contains example [pre-commit] configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains an example [pre-commit] configuration.
```

> [pre-commit] is a tool that use [Git hooks] to identify and solve simple issues before submission to code review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[pre-commit] is a tool that uses [Git hooks] to identify and resolve simple issues prior to submission for code review.
```

> [Git hooks] run on every commit to automatically point out and solve issue like missing semicolons, trailing whitespace,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Git hooks] run on every commit to automatically point out and solve issues such as missing semicolons, trailing whitespaces,
```

code formatting and spell checks.

### Setting up pre-commit for R project

> 1. Install pre-commit framework. Use official [installation guide][pre-commit installation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the `pre-commit` framework. Use the official [installation guide][pre-commit installation].
```

2. Install R package `precommit`

```sh
R -e 'install.packages("precommit")'
```

> 3. Run script to generate example pre-commit configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the `use_precommit()` function to generate an example pre-commit configuration called `.pre-commit-config.yaml`:
```

```sh

> R -e 'precommit::use_precommit()'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ ! -f ".pre-commit-config.yaml" ] && R -e 'precommit::use_precommit()'
```

```

> Above command will generate example `.pre-commit-config.yaml`. If this file already exists in repo
> you can skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

no-browser-statement.....................................................Passed
deps-in-desc.............................................................Passed
prettier.................................................................Failed
- hook id: prettier
- files were modified by this hook

.pre-commit-config.yaml
README.md

Check for added large files..............................................Passed
Fix End of Files.........................................................Passed
Trim Trailing Whitespace.................................................Failed
- hook id: trailing-whitespace
- exit code: 1
- files were modified by this hook

Fixing .pre-commit-config.yaml
Fixing README.md

Check Yaml...............................................................Passed
Don't commit to branch...................................................Passed
Mixed line ending........................................................Passed
Don't commit common R artifacts......................(no files to check)Skipped

```

[pre-commit]: https://pre-commit.com
[pre-commit installation]: https://pre-commit.com/#installation

> [git hooks]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks

Reviewer: Move links to top of the README.
